Tim fiola user guide - getting started webui (#573)
nautobot/nautobot: nautobot/docs/user-guides/getting-started/vlans-and-vlan-groups.md

# VLANS and VLAN Groups

Each VLAN may be assigned to a site, tenant, and/or VLAN group.

Each VLAN must be assigned a status. The following statuses are available by default:

- Active
- Reserved
- Deprecated

In general, VLANs can have overlapping names and IDs. The exception to this is VLANs within a VLAN Group: each VLAN within a group must have a unique ID and name.  
A VLAN Group may be assigned to a specific site, but a Group cannot belong to multiple sites. VLANs may be assigned to a specific site as well.

> The Nautobot documentation has more info about [VLANs and VLAN Groups](https://nautobot.readthedocs.io/en/latest/core-functionality/vlans/#vlan-management).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Nautobot documentation has more info about [VLANs and VLAN Groups](../core-functionality/vlans.md#vlan-management).
```

Once you've created the three VLANs and then hit the `Create` button, you will be taken to the **VLANs** main page. On that page, 
you'll see the three VLANs and the Site assignment for each one. Each `vlan 100` instance will have a Site assignment, while
`vlan 200` will not:

![](../images/getting-started-nautobot-ui/24-vlan-main-page.png)

### Assigning VLANs to an Interface

To assign a VLAN to an Interface:

1. Click on **IPAM** on the top-level navigation menu
2. Select **Devices** to go to the Devices main page
3. Click on the name of the Device you wish to add a VLAN to (`edge2.van1`) in this example
4. Click on the `Edit` button for the `xe-0/0/0` Interface to go to the `Editing interface xe-0/0/0` page
5. On the `Editing interface xe-0/0/0` page, set **802.1Q** Mode to `Access` (or whatever mode you need) and then click on the VLAN drop-down selector. Notice that there are two choices:
    * One choice is the `vlan 100` instance specifically assigned to the `Vancouver 1` Site
    * The other choice is `vlan 200`, which was not assigned to a Site, and thus has a global scope 

![](../images/getting-started-nautobot-ui/25-add-vlan-to-interface.png)

!!! note 

>     The `vlan 100` choice that is assigned to the `Ottawa 1` Site does not show up as an option for the `Vancouver1` Site

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    The `vlan 100` choice that is assigned to the `Ottawa 1` Site does not show up as an option for this Device since it belongs to the `Vancouver1` Site.
```

Author: I've read this a couple times each way and am going to keep my current wording
